Launch of Sputnik 1?	1957
In which year was ARPA created?	1958
When did they start planning ARPANET?	1966
What was the ARPANET (as opposed to a circuit-switched network)?	Wide-area packet switching network
When did&nbsp;Leonard Kleinrock do his PhD?	In 1963
What did Leonard Kleinrock study?	Message switching
Who studied message switching in 1963?	Leonard Kleinrock
Who studied packet switching?	Paul Baran in 1964 and Donald Davies in 1965-1966
Who was Larry Robberts?	Father of the ARPANET, fourth director of IPTO
What is an IMP	Interface Message Processor
Who invented the IMP?	Wesley Clark
When was the first IMP connected and by whom?	1969, as an ARPANET node, by Leonard Kleinrock
What protocol did ARPANET use in place of IP?	NCP: Network Control Program
When was the contract given to BBN to build the ARPANET?	January 1969
Who is the father of RFCs?	Steve Crocker from UCLA
What was RFC #1 and by whom?	Host Software, by Steve Crocker
Who invented Unics (later Unix) and when?	Ken Thompson and Dennis Ritchie in 1969
What were important features of Unics?	Interactive access and time-sharing (multitasking)
Who made the first TELNET connection and when?	1969 between Kleinrock (UCLA) and Engelbart (SRI, Stanford Research Institute)
What were the first available protocols?	TELNET and FTP
Who invented the @ and when?	Thomlinson, 1971
How was ARPANET email implemented?	Using FTP email subcommands
What was the MTA on ARPANET?	SNDMSG
What was the MUA on ARPANET?	READMAIL
What did Unix V4 add?	Rewritten in C and added pipes
When was TCP/IP specified and by whom?	1974, Vinton Cenf (Stanford) and Bob Kahn (DARPA)
Which protocol did TCP/IP replace?	NCP (Network Control Program)
Which RFC specifies TCP?	"RFC675. It also was the first time the word ""Internet"" was used."
What is ISO-OSI?	Internation Organization for Standardization - Open System Interconnection
What was the alternative to ISO-OSI?	TCP/IP (five layer model)
Who wrote UUCP and in which year / Unix version?	1979, Unix V7
When was SMTP introduced and in which RFC?	1982, RFC 821
Who wrote Sendmail and in which year?	Eric Allman, 1982
What protocol used the bang-path for email routing?	UUCP
How many hosts did NCP support?	2^8 (256)
When did the Internet switch to TCP/IP and from what?	In 1983, from NCP
What is System V?	AT&amp;T's commercial Unix, produced by Bell Labs (specifically USL, Unix System Laboratories)
What is SVR4?	System V Release 4. A lot of systems were based on this, such as Solaris
On which Unix was the Single UNIX Specification based?	System V Release 4
What was the difference between BSD and System V?	Open source (BSD) vs. proprietary (System V)
What new protocol was specified in 1983? Which RFC?	DNS (RFC 882)
What did DNS replace?	The HOSTS.TXT file
What did Paul Mockapetris do?	Specify DNS
When was MX introduced into DNS?	1986
What is NNTP?	Network News Transfer Protocol
When did SURFnet start?	1988
When was XMPP specified?	1999
How was a terminal originally connected to a mainframe?	Via a serial connection, ASCII over RS232
How were remote connections originally made between a mainframe and a terminal?	Via modem (modulator/demodulator)
What is the point of the CRLF	The carriage return returns the cursor to the beginning of a line; the line feed moves a line down. There were two physical operations to be performed.
Which software does xterm get its input from?	X server handles keyboard input
Which two sides does a pseudoterminal have?	A master (/dev/ptmx) and slaves (/dev/pts/0, /dev/pts/1, ...)
How does a remote computer see a remote connection of a virtual terminal?	As a second virtual terminal
What is the path from the user at a terminal to a remote shell?	Local virtual terminal (kernel space), ssh client (user space), TCP/IP in kernel space, over a physical medium (e.g. wire), to the TCP/IP stack of the other kernel, to the ssh server (user space), which communicates with the pty master, which communicates with a pty slave, which communicates with the shell running in user space
Name two examples of shells	sh, bash, zsh, ash, dash, ksh, csh, tsch, ...
What is shell expansion?	"Expanding shell arguments, for example ""ls $HOME"" will execute ""ls /home/luc"" (or something) and ""mv *.txt /tmp"" executes ""mv a.txt b.txt c.txt /tmp"" (if you have 3 .txt files)."
What system call is used to start processes?	execve
How to trace system calls related to network events?	strace -e trace=network &lt;command&gt;
How to trace system calls related to memory?	strace -e trace=memory &lt;command&gt;
What does the stat system call do?	It reads a file's status (e.g. its mode, its modification date, etc.)
What does a shell do before executing the system call to start a binary?	It forks, otherwise it will not survive the execve call.
Why is the fork system call expensive?	There is lots of copying involved.
What is vfork()?	"An ""ugly, legacy hack"" which sets some flags on clone()"
What is clone()?	Forking, sort of. (Can someone edit this please?!) Creates a new PID but is actually a thread.
What arguments does execve take?	The path to the executable, arguments and environment variables
What system call can the shell use to sleep until a child finishes?	wait()
Name important executable file formats and their platforms	"COFF (System V), ELF (SVR4), Mach-O (MacOS), PE/PE32+ (""Portable Executable"", Windows)"
With what character sequence do interpreter scripts start?	#! interpreter [arguments, optionally]
What is ld.so and why is it statically linked?	Dynamic linker/loader. It is statically linked because it is the dynamic loader, if it were dynamically linked then it would depend on itself.
What is the entry point of an ELF?	_start
How to read the structure of ELF binaries?	readelf
What are sections used for in an ELF?	linking phase (relocation)
What are segments used for in an ELF?	loading during runtime (program execution)
What can objdump do that readelf cannot?	disassemble
What does nm do?	list symbols defined in an object file
What is a symbol (in the context of object files)?	A symbolic name of a memory address (of some function or a piece of data)
What does the strip command do?	It removes symbols from an object file.
Why would one use the strip command?	To reduce size and hide content
What does ldd do?	It shows shared object dependencies
What does lsof do?	Lists open files and show shared objects loaded into address space
What is the /proc filesystem?	It is an interface to kernel data
What are the four compilation steps and explain each briefly.	Preprocessing (process macros, e.g. include #includes), compilation (turn the code into assembly), assembly (assemble the object (binary) code from assembly), linking (link the object files into an executable)
What does a dynamically linked executable usually need in order to run?	Shared Object files (.so)
What is Position Independent Code (PIC)?	Used by shared objects, dynamically loaded at runtime by the dynamic linker/loader
Where does _start come from, since you only specify main()?	It is included in files added by the gcc driver, specifically crt1.o
What is CISC?	Complex Instruction Set Computer
What is RISC?	Reduced Instruction Set Computer
Is x86 CISC or RISC?	CISC
What steps does a CPU constantly cycle through?	Fetch, decode, execute.
